# Phase 1 - Home Network
## Overview:
In Phase I, I built a home network which is the simplest network that you regularly see in the real world. This network deploys just one router and two switches with no fault tolerance or extreme security. The reason most home networks don't have fault tolerance is because it's quite unnecessary. Most home networks aren't dealing with lots of network traffic, and critical data that needs a 99.999% uptime. They also don't need extreme security because you would assume the security starts at the door to your house, making sure you're only inviting people that you can trust. Also most home networks aren't a high target for cybercriminals because there usually isn't a lot of money to be made snooping around someone's home network. While there are some cases for high-profile individuals to have strong network security in their home network because the information or the money they possess would make it worth it for cybercriminals to attack. The average person does not need to stress about locking down their network as much as possible. As long as you have the basic security on all your physical hardware and are locking down the traffic that's coming into your network with firewalls, this is usually good enough for most people. 

## Router:
The router is the heartbeat of this network because it is how all of the devices in the network reach the Internet. If the router fails or has a problem, none of the devices will have the ability to go outside of the network that it's on. One of the main features that the router does besides route traffic is assign the devices on the network their IP addresses using DHCP. In a home network, you assume most of the users are not tech-savvy enough to assign their own IP address. Which is why you see DHCP widely used, where the end device only has to be plugged into the network, and the router will give it its own IP address, making it a lot simpler for the user experience. While this router doesn't route traffic to the outside internet, it allows the two VLAN to communicate with each other. The two VLANS that I have set up, separate the traffic from my upstairs to my downstairs. This way, I don't have to worry about my brother, who lives downstairs, messing with my traffic. It's all on a different network, making it so if his device wants to communicate with my device, it has to go to the router first. Otherwise, if it was on the same network, he wouldn't have to go through the router and it could go directly to my device using just the switch. Because I have two networks in my home, I only want one network to be able to access the router using SSH. That's why I put an ACL rule on the interface so that only the upstairs network has the ability to access the router. There is no need for my brother's network to have access to the router, and I don't want him messing with it!

## Switches:
The two switches that I have in my network are very basic with minimal security. Their whole goal is just to add more ports of my router so I can connect more devices. As I was talking in the router section, both of these switches are configured with VLANs because that is what is needed to make sure the devices are on the proper VLANs. In the network I built, I only have one end device on each network. Of course, in my actual home network, I have multiple devices connected all over the place, but I only really needed to show one device on each network to make sure it works because with other devices, they are just plug-and-play. Because I only have one device hooked up to each switch, and the switch is connected to each other, I have a lot of ports on each switch that are not being used for anything. So, I took this security measure, which, honestly, in a home network is not important to do, but I put all of the unused interfaces in a "parking lot" VLAN, which is basically an unused VLAN that can't route anywhere outside the switch. I also administratively shut down all the ports, so that if someone randomly connected an Ethernet cable or an end device, it wouldn't do anything and wouldn't be able to connect or see anything on the network.

